Chapter 1: Introduction to Linux
uname – Displays system information.
hostname – Shows or sets the system's hostname.
lsb_release – Provides Linux distribution information.
cat /etc/*release – Displays distribution release details.
Chapter 2: Navigating the Filesystem
pwd – Prints the current working directory.
ls – Lists directory contents.
cd – Changes the current directory.
cd ~ – Navigates to the home directory.
cd - – Returns to the previous directory.
ls -a – Lists all files, including hidden ones.
ls -l – Lists files with detailed information.
ls -lh – Lists files with human-readable sizes.
ls -R – Lists directories and their contents recursively.
 Chapter 3: Managing Files and Directories
cp – Copies files or directories.
cp -r – Copies directories recursively.
mv – Moves or renames files or directories.
rm – Removes files or directories.
rm -r – Removes directories recursively.
rm -f – Forces removal without prompting.
mkdir – Creates directories.
rmdir – Removes empty directories.
touch – Creates empty files or updates timestamps.
ln – Creates hard links.
ln -s – Creates symbolic (soft) links.
 Chapter 4: Command Line Skills
man – Displays manual pages for commands.
info – Provides detailed documentation.
whatis – Provides brief descriptions of commands.
which – Shows the full path of shell commands.
clear – Clears the terminal screen.
history – Displays command history.
!! – Repeats the last command.
!n – Executes the nth command in history.
 Chapter 5: Getting Help
man <command> – Displays the manual for a command.
man -k <keyword> – Searches for commands by keyword.
info <command> – Displays detailed documentation.
whatis <command> – Provides a short description of a command.
which <command> – Shows the location of a command.
 Chapter 6: Filesystem Hierarchy
ls / – Lists the root directory contents.
ls /home – Lists user home directories.
ls /etc – Lists system configuration files.
ls /var – Lists variable data files.
ls /usr – Lists user binaries and read-only data.
 Chapter 7: Working with Files
cat – Concatenates and displays file content.
more – Views file content interactively.
less – Views file content interactively with backward navigation.
head – Displays the beginning of a file.
tail – Displays the end of a file.
tail -f – Follows the end of a file in real-time.
cut – Removes sections from each line of files.
paste – Merges lines of files.
sort – Sorts lines of text files.
uniq – Removes duplicate lines from a file.
wc – Counts words, lines, and characters in a file.
 Chapter 8: Archiving and Compression
tar – Archives files.
tar -cvf – Creates an archive.
tar -xvf – Extracts an archive.
tar -tvf – Lists contents of an archive.
gzip – Compresses files.
gzip <file> – Compresses a file.
gunzip <file.gz> – Decompresses a file.
zip – Compresses files into a ZIP archive.
unzip – Extracts files from a ZIP archive.
 Chapter 9: Pipes, Redirection, and Regular Expressions
| – Pipe operator; passes output to another command.
> – Redirects output to a file.
>> – Appends output to a file.
< – Redirects input from a file.
grep – Searches for patterns in files.
grep 'pattern' – Searches for a pattern.
grep -i – Ignores case.
grep -r – Recursively searches directories.
egrep – Extended grep; supports extended regex.
fgrep – Fixed-string grep; searches for fixed strings.
 Chapter 10: Working with Text
tr – Translates or deletes characters.
tee – Reads from standard input and writes to standard output and files.
xargs – Builds and executes command lines from standard input.
 Chapter 11: Basic Scripting
bash – Bourne Again Shell; command-line interpreter.
echo – Displays a line of text.
read – Reads a line of input.
if – Conditional statement.
then – Executes commands if condition is true.
else – Executes commands if condition is false.
elif – Else if; checks another condition.
fi – Ends an if statement.
for – Looping statement.
while – Executes commands as long as a condition is true.
until – Executes commands until a condition becomes true.
break – Exits from a loop.
continue – Skips the rest of the loop and starts the next iteration.
 Chapter 12: Managing Users and Groups
useradd – Adds a user to the system.
usermod – Modifies a user account.
userdel – Deletes a user account.
groupadd – Adds a group to the system.
groupdel – Deletes a group from
